Anyone played with some of these ideas in real life?I come with some good amount of engagement with the concept of HTML modules and I cansay that what the warfront is dictating is different from much of what we thought.1.Should HTML modules be JavaScript oriented (by using ES6's module infrastructure) orHTML oriented (by using HTML's own infrasture)?2.The answer should be obvious when we understand that we are talking about two differentdomains that each lends itself to be used differently, with each having its own infrasture forreusability.3.When we think of HTML modules, what we are really thinking of is reusable HTML contents -not reusable JavaScript, as this is what ES6 modules are designed for. And when we look, itis for this purpose of reusability in HTML that we designed the <template> element. And withthe template.content API, JavaScript code is already able to import these reusable HTMLelements for use.4.So, is there anything new about reusing HTML contents that we want to drop HTML's perfectinfrastructure for the job in favour of ES6 modules? Is it just because of HTML now being in aremote file? We could simply do something that gets these remote contents to the same end- the <template> element!5.The template element above is simply loading itself from a remote file. This is even howHTML thinks.6.Overall, how remote contents get to their home has been the concerns of the home elementitself.7.So, if reusable HTML is the question anywhere, it seems pretty straight forward to just askthe template element. There shouldn't be one system for consuming HTML defined statcallyand another separate system for consuming the same HTML defined in a remote file. Theword "load" should simply be a means to get the supposed contents to the same end.Othereise, we would be introducing a new sort of engineering for an existing concept withoutany additional benefit.8.At this point, I'd rather want to talk about how we could spice up reusability in HTML withthe <template> element, this time, using the module, import and export paradigm, whilemaintaining all the benefits of handling HTML concenrns in HTML. I've engaged with thisconcept extensively using a polyfill I made. And after a million iterations building a real-wordapp with it, here are my conclusions.9.The <template> element is perfect as one home for anything reusable, whether definedstatcally or remotely. And this is the HTML module: and its contents are exports!10.And in this sense of a module,11.The template element would have a name that's used as the module ID.12.The export terminology would go to an <export> element that puts contents up forconsumption using an export ID.13.The import terminology would go to an <import> element that let's us declaratively place anyof a module's export on its slot in the main document.14.The import (or include) feature is something we've all needed under different proposals.What's new here is that instead of being all about including server-side contents, the importelement just has a relationship with the template element - the module. So, however atemplate gets its contents is it's own concern. The import element just imports from thetemplate.15.Now, many new things become possible with this HTML-oriented HTML module system, allof which would be lost otherwise.
16.Modules would be nestable, in which case the module ID becomes a path.17.This let's us organize contents meaningfully.18.And for template elements that load their contents from a remote file, there would be noneed for render-blocking or any defer semantics. They would simply announce a successfulload event whenever that happens. (Just as we have with the image element.) And importelements in the UI that depend on these remote contents are simply resolved as exportsbecome available. (Just as the image element is rendered at whatever time loading issuccessful.)19.With the event system of HTML modules, the main UI is able to maintain a dynamicrelationship with its source of contents.How about an HTML modules API?1.With an API, we wouldn't have to query for modules using CSS selectors. Adocument.templates property would do just perfectly.2.And a template.exports property would give a module's exports.3.A document.addEventListener() could always be used to observe the state of a document'smodules - especially where modules are loading remote content or where modules are beingprogrammatically added to the document.Now what else would be possible and how does everything add up to letting us author modular,reactive UI with just native HTML? You'll find out that HTML modules is only a part of what weneed together for this purpose.The answer to this question has been my project at WebQit which I have summed up asOOHTML (formally CHTML) - a suite of UI features that let's us build modular, reactive UIsnatively.Please see the proposal at the WICG. (Discussion mainly at the WICG.)Here is the project - the polyfill - on Github.Here is the documentation (progressively being improved.)I am very excited about OOHTML as it seeks to provide one answer to the many questions thatgo together, much of which we've tried to propose earlier as standalone ideas.OOHTML was designed on the job and being iterated on the job. We've had success taking s siteto production with it at WebQit. And this has furnished us answers to many design questions.